.TH dispatch 1 "November 25, 2013"
.SH NAME
dispatch - run multiple processes at once
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdispatch\fP [options ...] [files ...]
.br
cat filename | \fBdispatch\fP [options ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
dispatch reads commands from standard input or from files passed as
arguments on its command line. Once an internal list of commands has
been built, dispatch will fork a process to run each command by
invoking /bin/sh with the -c option followed by the command and its
arguments. It will run a certain number of these commands in
parallel. The number is determined by the numeric argument of
dispatch's num line option (see \fBOptions\fP, below). If this option
is omitted, a default value of 2 is used.
.PP
dispatch can also output some information about the processes that are
being run. This output is sent to the standard error device so as not
to interfere with any redirection of the standard output from the
commands being run.
.SS Options
.PP
\fB-v\fP,
\fB--verbose\fP
.RS
Output information about the progress of the running jobs.
.RE
.PP
\fB-n\fP,
\fB--num=integer\fP
.RS
Keep integer number of jobs running in parallel. The default value, if
this option is omitted, is determined by the number of online CPUs as
determined by the \fB_SC_NPROCESSORS_ONLN\fP option of the
\fBsysconf\fP system call. With the value of 2 used as a minimum
fallback when there is only 1 processor available.
.RE
.SH BUGS
.PP
None are known at this time. However, this is a very powerful program
despite the simplicity of the code. You could very easily fork bomb
your system if you use too large a value for the number of processes
to run.
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
dispatch was written by Jason J. A. Stephenson <jason@sigio.com>.

